
PROFESSOR: On behalf of MIT Critical Data,
I welcome you to HST.953x.
This course was created by members of MIT Critical
Data, a global consortium that consists
of health practitioners, computer
scientists, and engineers from academia, industry,
and government.
MIT Critical Data seeks to place data
driven research and learning at the front
and center of healthcare.
We create cross disciplinary communities to derive knowledge
from data routinely collected in the process of care
and we seek to improve the understanding of both health
and disease in all clinical and cultural contexts.
Research has been traditionally viewed
as a purely academic undertaking,
especially in limited resource settings.
Clinical trials, the gold standards of medical research,
are expensive, difficult to perform well,
and often result in findings limited by issues of subject
inclusion and exclusion.
They also take place primarily in countries
which can afford them.
Blood pressure thresholds for hypertension or blood sugar
targets for diabetics are established
based on research performed in a handful of countries.
There is an implicit but flawed assumption
that the validity of such studies
carried out in the US and other Western countries
fully and accurately generalize to patients around the world.
The digitalization of care presents an opportunity
to engage healthcare practitioners
from every country in pertinent and applicable research.
This research is based on the partnership of clinicians
and public health practitioners with computer scientists,
engineers, and social scientists in an inspiring enterprise
consisting of the creation and validation
of medical knowledge.
Data is proliferating in diverse forms
within the healthcare field.
Not only because of the adoption of digital health records,
but also because of the growing use of
wireless technologies for admonitory monitoring.
The world is abuzz with applications of data science
in almost every field.
Commerce, transportation, banking, and more
recently healthcare.
These breakthroughs are due to both rediscovered and newly
created algorithms, powerful computers to run them,
and most importantly the availability
of bigger and increasingly reliable and usable
data to train the algorithms.
This course provides an introductory survey
of the data science tools employed in healthcare
for these purposes.
Instruction is carried out through a variety
of proven hands on workshops and exercises.
In our quest to fully leverage the data routinely collected
in the process of care, we need to remind ourselves
that the actual data elements are heavily
influenced by longstanding social, cultural, and
institutional biases.
In an ideal world, only individual patient health
and disease factors would determine and guide
the prediction of clinical outcomes.
However, we live in a world where the entered data
elements, applied algorithms, and human interpretations
and decisions can be knowingly or unconsciously biased.
And unless the underlying inequities in our communities
are addressed, such biases will perpetuate and at times magnify
existing health disparities.
This course is a labor of love among friends
from around the world.
The most daunting global health issues right now
are the result of interconnected crises,
global warming, the COVID pandemic,
the economic fallouts of the pandemic, political extremism
and polarization, and systemic racism.
However, we also live in a time of powerful advances
in information technology, artificial intelligence,
and molecular biology that can be
applied to these formidable health problems.
In this course, we highlight the importance
of a multidisciplinary approach to knowledge generation.
Every patient encounter digitally documented,
stored, and analyzable is an opportunity
that we can learn from.
In this context every health practitioner
in partnership with data scientists
should and will become a contributor and a custodian
and not merely a passive recipient
of the medical knowledge system.