
PROFESSOR: So I'm going to offer some suggestions that I
hope would be useful for you as you progress through this term.
One is that whenever you want to have a collaboration
with humans, whether that's initially when you're working
with someone to collect data or later when you're analyzing it,
you have to develop a shared language.
That means that you can have the same terminology.
And you may all have been exposed to jargon
in the past where maybe you try to read a paper that's
outside your area of expertise.
Or sometimes, even just news articles
will use a lot of terms that are non-standard or are only
particular to a certain field.
But there are particular challenges
that come up in data analysis with respect to language.
One of those is when the same word
can have different meanings in different fields.
So an example that I frequently come across
is this one in planetary science.
People will talk about a feature of a planet.
This is Olympus Mons, which is the largest volcano on Mars.
This picture does not do it justice.
This thing is immense.
In fact, it's one of the largest volcanoes
in the entire solar system.
It's huge.
But you can think of this, if you're a planetary scientist,
as a surface feature.
It's a feature of the surface.
But in machine learning, the word feature
has a very, very different meaning.
So a feature of a volcano might be
something like its height, its area, albedo, shape.
They are descriptive attributes that tell you
something about an object.
And this has repeatedly come up and caused confusion
when we're working with planetary scientists.
We get to the point where we're talking
about extracting features about features because we're
trying to describe a surface feature with our features,
and it's extremely confusing.
So we end up backing off and calling these machine learning
features attributes, or characteristics,
or something else that can help distinguish it.
But it's that process of figuring out
where your terminology collides and how you can resolve it
that's really important for being able to just talk
to other people.
Secondly, you have to think about what
the connotations are for particular word choices
that you may make.
I do a lot of work in data analysis
in finding interesting items buried
within a larger data set.
And there are a lot of different ways I can talk about that.
So I could say that it's outlier detection, that
might have some meaning for folks from statistics
or machine learning.
I can call it anomaly detection, or I could
call it novelty detection.
And if you think about it, these all
have very different connotations.
For a lot of people, if you talk about anomaly detection,
it sounds like something's wrong,
like you've detected an error, or a mistake, or failure.
And that's usually not how I mean it.
I use it when I'm looking for something interesting.
So I'll often talk about novelty detection
to try to emphasize the more positive connotation there.
But these terms are commonly used and interchanged,
and they all really do have slightly different meanings.
So you should think about that when
you're trying to work with people
and convey what you're doing and not give the wrong impression.