
More generally, there's problem sometimes with missing data.
And I don't know if this is something you will encounter
in your data set.
But it happens all the time in a lot of disciplines
and a lot of research areas where there's just some feature
value that's missing.
And the first thing you have to know is how is that indicated?
Is it a question mark?
Is it a negative value?
Does negative mean missing, maybe?
Is it 99999, which is, for some reason,
a very commonly used signature for a negative--
or for missing data.
What is the signal that something is missing
versus a truly observed value?
And if it is missing, why?
Is it missing because it was never measured?
Like, no one got around to measuring
someone's weight that day, so there's just the missing value?
Or is it-- was it out of range?
Sometimes, there's a valid range for a particular feature,
and if something falls outside of that,
you're not able to represent it.
Or is it truly unmeasurable?
So I was working at one point with a star galaxy
classification data set, which sounds pretty straightforward.
You'd take a bunch of observations
of things in the sky, and you want
to say which ones are stars and which ones are galaxies.
And one of the features that was used
to represent all of the items was
eccentricity of an ellipse fit to that object on the sky.
So eccentricity tells you how elongated or round the thing
is.
And for a lot of these objects, that value is simply missing.
And as I looked into it further, I
realized that it was strongly correlated with the class
label.
And it turns out that this is because a star is a point
source.
And the ellipse fit method-- whoever
used it to generate this data just fails for a point source
because you can't fit an ellipse to a point in a meaningful way.
And so there was no eccentricity to report at all.
So in that case, it would not be appropriate to try
to infer that missing value because it
is truly inappropriate.
It's truly unmeasurable for that particular type of object.
So that's good in a way because it's
diagnostic, but bad in a way when
you're trying to apply your standard SPD
or something like that, which doesn't like missing values.
So you have to think about ways around this
and do something appropriate with the missing values
if there are any.
Don't just blindly try to fill them in,
which is a common mistake people sometimes make.
